Summary of changes for adding state-funded pupils at independent special settings (#41)
DFE-Digital/get-help-with-tech-design-history: app/posts/2021-03-19-independent-special-settings.md

---
title: State-funded pupils at independent special settings
description: Adding a new type of school so local authorities can order laptops for state&#8209;funded pupils at independent special settings
date: 2021-03-19
related:
  items:
  - text: Trello – LA to order devices on behalf of Independent Special Schools
    href: https://trello.com/c/60deUvx9/1642-la-to-order-devices-on-behalf-of-independent-special-schools
---

> Laptops are now available for pupils who have state funding to attend an independent special settings (ISS) and are eligible for free school meals (or do not have access to a suitable device for remote education or catch-up learning). Each LA has been allocated laptops based on the ’January 2020 Alternative provision census’ data. This is approximately 4,000 pupils at 600 schools, in most of the local authorities in England.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Laptops are now available for pupils who have state funding to attend an independent special setting (ISS) and are eligible for free school meals (or do not have access to a suitable device for remote education or catch-up learning). Each LA has been allocated laptops based on the ’January 2020 Alternative provision census’ data. This is approximately 4,000 pupils at 600 schools, in most of the local authorities in England.
```

Giving an independent special settings access to Get help with technology wasn’t possible. Instead the decision was taken to create a ‘placeholder school’ for each local authority. The placeholder schools are allocated laptops for the state-funded pupils the LA is responsible for. This means the LA needs to manage finding out what laptop types each pupil needs and distributing it to them. The LA is also responsible for the laptop and will need to manage maintenance and redistribution.

### Adding users to our service

> The user’s who are going to manage getting laptops for these state-funded pupils are not likely to be the same members of the LA who are already using the service. We’ve emailed LAs to get contact details of who they think is best placed to manage this.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The users who are going to manage getting laptops for these state-funded pupils are not likely to be the same members of the LA who are already using the service. We’ve emailed LAs to get contact details of who they think is best placed to manage this.
```

Once we have these contacts, we need to know if their allocation is correct and their delivery address. Getting this information up-front allows us to create TechSource accounts as soon as possible and not slow-down ordering. To get this information we decided to use a Google form. This should give us relatively clean data (in comparison to managing this through emails). 

Once we have this data we can add these users to our service.

#### Google form

<img src="/images/iss/google-form/google-form-01.png"
     alt=""
     >

<img src="/images/iss/google-form/google-form-02.png"
     alt=""
     >

<img src="/images/iss/google-form/google-form-02-a-01.png"
     alt=""
     >

> 

Reviewer: There are macros for this
